399.075¹ 
Ordering organized militia to state active duty
• pay and allowances
(1) The Adjutant General, with the approval of the Governor, may order members of the organized militia to state active duty as defined in the Oregon Code of Military Justice. Members, while on state active duty, shall receive not less than the pay and allowances of their corresponding grades in the Armed Forces of the United States in accordance with a schedule approved by the Adjutant General for the period of time in state active duty. State active duty under this subsection includes, but is not limited to, support of federal, state and local drug eradication, interdiction and other counterdrug operations under a counterdrug support plan approved by the Governor, and reasons related to homeland security. When participating in such support operations, and to the extent authorized by 32 U.S.C. 112, applicable regulations of the National Guard Bureau and the Oregon Counterdrug Support Plan, the Oregon Military Department is designated as a law enforcement agency for the purpose of carrying out federal asset forfeiture laws only.
(2) Members of the organized militia serving on courts-martial, courts of inquiry, efficiency boards, medical boards or other special duty requiring absence from their stations or business under competent orders may be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred at the rate established for state employees under appropriate travel regulations issued by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services.
(3) In lieu of other provisions of this chapter, a medical examiner may be paid for services and necessary disbursements and a properly appointed judge advocate may be paid for legal services and necessary disbursements in any suit, action or proceeding, such amounts as shall be approved by the Governor.
(4) Members of the organized militia shall not receive from the state the pay or the pay and allowances provided for by this section when eligible for such pay and allowances from federal funds.
(5) Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this chapter, members of the organized militia may with their consent perform without pay or without pay and allowances any of the types of military duty prescribed in this chapter and ORS chapters 396 and 398 pursuant to orders issued by competent military authority; provided however, that necessary traveling expenses, subsistence and per diem allowances may be furnished such members within the discretion of the Adjutant General and within the amount appropriated therefor.
(6) All pay and allowances provided for by this chapter, except per diem, mileage and expenses while traveling under orders shall be subject to be applied to the payment of penalties and fines imposed by military courts, and to the payment of any shortage of or injury to state or United States property or funds for which a member of the organized militia is responsible or accountable where such responsibility has been fixed by competent authority.
(7)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, members of the organized militia who are ordered to state active duty shall be considered temporary employees of the military department.
(b) Members of the organized militia who are ordered to state active duty are not subject to ORS chapter 240 and ORS 243.650 (Definitions for ORS 243.650 to 243.782) to 243.782 (Representation by counsel authorized).
(8) The limitations on employment imposed by ORS 238.082 (Limits on hours worked by retired members) (2) and (3) do not apply to a retired member of the Public Employees Retirement System who has attained normal retirement age and is on state active duty. Hours served by a person under this subsection shall not be counted for the purpose of the limitations on employment imposed by ORS 238.082 (Limits on hours worked by retired members) (2) and (3). [1961 c.454 §69; 1997 c.486 §1; 2003 c.311 §1; 2009 c.390 §§2,9; 2013 c.81 §26]

399.105¹ 
Militia unit facilities
Unless furnished by the United States, the state shall provide adequate armory accommodations, bases, camps, target ranges and other facilities and shall maintain such facilities for units of the Oregon National Guard allotted to the state under the laws of the United States, accepted by the Governor and organized under the authority of this chapter and ORS chapters 396 and 398. [1961 c.454 §46]
